*Updated 2014-03-23*
As I've worked on this project, I've faced several challenges during development and made somewhat arbitrary design decisions with the code that I will attempt to explain in this post.
Little Data is a project designed around (what I eventually discovered to be called) sonification; that is, hearing data. If you're familiar with data-vis, this is the auditory equivalent. In this case, we're hearing the sounds of the colors around us. It's essentially translating color data into sound data, and in that translation, certain somewhat arbitrary choices were made regarding how those colors would be best represented as sounds. One of the things I struggled with, as described in earlier posts, is how to uniquely represent hues as pitches. I eventually found a model that did just that, but I was still left with raw numbers that would mean nothing as pitches, so I chose to ~~scale the pitches by a factor in order to produce something more in our range of hearing~~ scale the pitches to within several octaves. As with other places where such an arbitrary decision such as this was made, I've provided a mechanism for the user to ~~change the value of this scaling~~ change the octaves the pitches range through. Another such case is that of the number of random points sampled for color data per frame, as well as the number of frames per second. These settings have been preset to values I found interesting, but can also be manipulated by the user. Additionally, to better show what is happening, I chose to magnify the size of the data points chosen, hence the squares that appear on screen.
There are other areas where I chose not to provide user toggles for the time being, though they could easily be added as necessary. An example would be the high-pass filter I integrated that blocks colors that are too dark, canceling out much of the noise that I felt interfered with the purpose of the project. Additionally, ~~the Saturation and Value~~ Saturation component of the data points selected is at this stage discarded; only the Hue ~~is~~ and the Lightness of the data point are involved in determining what sound to play. ~~I am still experimenting with possible uses for Saturation and Lightness, such as changing the height of the scale the pitch is chosen from, but this is not yet implemented in this stage of the project.~~ I am currently experimenting with using the saturation to determine the loudness or volume of the sound played, but this is not implemented.
The decisions detailed above are not final, and they simply reflect my arbitrary artistic choices in the project; like a painter may chose their palette, I chose mine. However, where possible, I tried to open up the ability for the user to play with these choices and find something they enjoyed. I even provided an alternative set of values ("Song Mode") I felt were equally as interesting.
