As I stated earlier, this isn't the first time I've tried to convert colors into something audible, but I'd mostly worked with low-level hardware in order to do this, using photodiodes, filters, and such to generate pitches. However, this was my first attempt at doing the same at a software level. I'm partially fascinated from the perspective of someone who is colorblind, and thus unable to to distinguish the same range of colors that most human beings can. I was also interested in the phenomenon that is synesthesia, which essentially means people experience one of their senses through another; for example, hearing colors, tasting or seeing sounds, etc.
I pushed forth with learning how to use the Web Audio API to generate pitches. I wasn't entirely sure how to translate them at first; RGB values are three sets of data on the same range. My first approach was to add these values, which proved unsuccessful because a color with maximum red and blue but no green (purple) sounded the same as a color with maximum blue and green but no red (blue-green). In other words, adding them would not produce unique pitches for colors. After trying various other approaches such as scaling R, G, and B values seperately and adding (which I didn't like because it set an unnatural bias towards either R, G, or B), I realized the best way to handle it was to go back to the very basics. Light is a wave; different colors are simply different wavelengths in the electromagnetic spectrum. Thus, different colors inherently had different values associated with them that would be measured. Unfortunately, the RGB color system does aay with this data and forces it into an arbitrary set of parameters. So I decided I needed to move away from the RGB model and instead to something better suited at representing colors: HSV, or HSL. Not as widely known as the Red/Green/Blue system, HSV stands for Hue/Saturation/Value (or Lightness for HSL) and is a much more natural way of representing colors. By breaking a color into its component Hue, Saturation, and Lightness values, I could represent colors uniquely! And that brings us mostly up to date.
If this all sounds confusing to you, I encourage you to check out the project by downloading it as a Packaged App from the Chrome Web Store [here](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/little-data-a-web-art-exp/clgkogdimfofiapppjnpbkpkanghiabh "Little Data").
