As stated in the project description, my vision was about colors. It seems obvious to say they're everywhere, but I don't think we recognize just how much they are everywhere. Every moment you look at something, you don't think about the color of what you're seeing, but you subconsciously gather that information anyway such that when you think about it later, you know what it is. Your mind isn't consciously thinking "grey, blue, black, red, green, black, grey, grey, blue" for every few pixels (so to speak) of data it's picking up on, so most of the time this information goes unnoticed. Additionally, while we're aware of the many different colors visible to us, we tend to only focus on one or two at a time when we do think about them. These are all things that are true for most everyone, but that I wasn't acutely aware of until I started the Little Data project.
I started by taking an image and asking for the color of a few pixels of it. I was fascinated by seeing all manner of colors print out in my console that I didn't notice until I looked closely: colors that were there, but seemed to be tiny details rather than objects of color in and of themselves. There were so many different colors everywhere, I was overwhelmed by the sheer amount of color information in one single frame. I magnified the pixels I was polling on the image in order to more clearly see what colors these were. I again marveled at how much color was in places I didn't realize.
At this point, I decided I wanted to see that information about things I could see and experience in real-time. I turned to WebRTC to provide me a stream of images from a webcam that I could then poll and manipulate using HTML Canvas. But this wasn't enough--Sure, I could see the data on screen, but that didn't tell me too much more than what I already knew. It was interesting from a data visualization point of view, but it didn't make the kind of impact I wanted.
I thought it would be interesting to "visualize" this same information we take in constantly through our eyes, through another sense: hearing. As I stated earlier, this isn't the first time I've tried to convert colors into something audible, but I'd mostly worked with low-level hardware in order to do this, using photodiodes, filters, and such to generate pitches. However, this was my first attempt at doing the same at a software level. I'm partially fascinated from the perspective of someone who is colorblind, and thus unable to to distinguish the same range of colors that most human beings can. I was also interested in the phenomenon that is synesthesia, which essentially means people experience one of their senses through another; for example, hearing colors, tasting or seeing sounds, etc.
I pushed forth with learning how to use the Web Audio API to generate pitches. I wasn't entirely sure how to translate them at first; RGB values are three sets of data on the same range. My first approach was to add these values, which proved unsuccessful because a color with maximum red and blue but no green (purple) sounded the same as a color with maximum blue and green but no red (blue-green). In other words, adding them would not produce unique pitches for colors. After trying various other approaches such as scaling R, G, and B values seperately and adding (which I didn't like because it set an unnatural bias towards either R, G, or B), I realized the best way to handle it was to go back to the very basics. Light is a wave; different colors are simply different wavelengths in the electromagnetic spectrum. Thus, different colors inherently had different values associated with them that would be measured. Unfortunately, the RGB color system does aay with this data and forces it into an arbitrary set of parameters. So I decided I needed to move away from the RGB model and instead to something better suited at representing colors: HSV, or HSL. Not as widely known as the Red/Green/Blue system, HSV stands for Hue/Saturation/Value (or Lightness for HSL) and is a much more natural way of representing colors. By breaking a color into its component Hue, Saturation, and Lightness values, I could represent colors uniquely! And that brings us mostly up to date.
If this all sounds confusing to you, I encourage you to check out the project by downloading it as a Packaged App from the Chrome Web Store [here](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/little-data-a-web-art-exp/clgkogdimfofiapppjnpbkpkanghiabh "Little Data").
