As stated in the project description, my vision was about colors. It seems obvious to say they're everywhere, but I don't think we recognize just how much they are everywhere. Every moment you look at something, you don't think about the color of what you're seeing, but you subconsciously gather that information anyway such that when you think about it later, you know what it is. Your mind isn't consciously thinking "grey, blue, black, red, green, black, grey, grey, blue" for every few pixels (so to speak) of data it's picking up on, so most of the time this information goes unnoticed. Additionally, while we're aware of the many different colors visible to us, we tend to only focus on one or two at a time when we do think about them. These are all things that are true for most everyone, but that I wasn't acutely aware of until I started the Little Data project.
I started by taking an image and asking for the color of a few pixels of it. I was fascinated by seeing all manner of colors print out in my console that I didn't notice until I looked closely: colors that were there, but seemed to be tiny details rather than objects of color in and of themselves. There were so many different colors everywhere, I was overwhelmed by the sheer amount of color information in one single frame. I magnified the pixels I was polling on the image in order to more clearly see what colors these were. I again marveled at how much color was in places I didn't realize.
At this point, I decided I wanted to see that information about things I could see and experience in real-time. I turned to WebRTC to provide me a stream of images from a webcam that I could then poll and manipulate using HTML Canvas. But this wasn't enough--Sure, I could see the data on screen, but that didn't tell me too much more than what I already knew. It was interesting from a data visualization point of view, but it didn't make the kind of impact I wanted.
I thought it would be interesting to "visualize" this same information we take in constantly through our eyes, through another sense: hearing. That will be the topic of my next post.
