Playing a little game of catch-up here; I arrived late to the DevArt party, but I've coincidentally been working on an art project for just such an occasion. Little Data started out as a challenge to myself: to discover what I believed art to be. Such is the nature of many discussions concerning art: what is art? Is it exclusively something beautiful, or perhaps something meant to convey an emotion? Is something art because it was created with the intention of being art? Who decides what art is? Can an individual deem something to be art, or is art more deeply cultural? These were the thoughts in my head as I set out into unexplored territory. Sure, I've taken an art course or two in the past, but could code truly produce art? I wasn't so sure. But once I found a purpose, once I decided on a vision, I couldn't be stopped. I knew what I wanted, and I would settle for no less. That's what drove me to use advanced APIs like WebRTC and Web Audio: hardware-dependent code is fairly new to web browsers. Fortunately Chrome was on top of things in terms of these APIs, so I focused my coding efforts upon getting this one platform to do what I wanted it to do. HTML Canvas, amusingly, was my canvas for creation. I'd never worked with it (or WebRTC or Web Audio) before, but I knew what I wanted to do and would stop at nothing to do it. I didn't know if it would be pretty. I didn't know if it would even be interesting. But I knew what I wanted. I had a vision. And in the end, I think that's what art is: something someone has a vision of, and stops at nothing to execute. It's a method of creative expression, a way for an artist to speak in the language of his or her mind and tell the world "this is what I think, this is how I think". Thus began Little Data.
